Now, in Luke chapter 23, we read the famous passage about the crucifixion of Jesus Christ.
And, you know, the more you study the Bible, the more you realize that this is the main
pivotal event of human history.
And really, everything in the Old Testament is all pointing us toward this.
And there's so much symbolism in the Old Testament that's pointing us toward the death
barrel and resurrection of Christ.
And then pretty much everything after this in the Bible is looking back on it, preaching
about it.
I mean, the gospel is the death barrel and resurrection of Christ.
So this is the key event of the Bible that everything points to.
And I want to go over some details about the crucifixion of Christ.
And notably, I want to focus on two characters in this story, the thief on the cross and
then also Barabbas are the two people that I want to talk about tonight.
Now look, if you would, at Matthew 27.
Flip back to just a few pages in your Bible to Matthew chapter 27.
The Bible reads in Matthew 27, verse 38, then were there two thieves crucified with
them, one on the right hand and another on the left, and they that passed by reviled
them, wagging their heads and saying, Thou that destroyest the temple and buildest it
in three days, save thyself if thou be the son of God, come down from the cross.
Likewise also the chief priest mocking him with the scribes and elders said, he saved
others himself he cannot save.
If he be the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross and we will believe him.
He trusted in God, let him deliver him now if he will have him, for he said, I am the
son of God.
It's interesting if you look at those verses, that's pretty much a quote from Psalm 22.
Psalm 22 is predicting that's exactly the type of things that he'd be saying.
And it says in verse 44, the thieves also which were crucified with him cast the same
in his teeth.
So according to Matthew 27, the two thieves that were crucified on each side of him, these
are the type of things they were saying to him, if you're Christ, save yourself.
If you're really who you say you are, you'd have the ability to come down from the cross
and you could save us too while you're at it.
Now go to Mark 15.
It's interesting because you get different details from each passage.
In Luke for example, we're not even told, you know, the famous story about the thief
on the cross.
We're not even really told that he's a thief in Luke, you know, but we get that from Matthew
and Mark.
In Luke he's just called a malifactor, basically that just means a criminal, a wrongdoer.
Look at Mark 15 verse 27, it says, and with him they crucified two thieves, the one on
his right hand and the other on his left.
And the scripture was fulfilled which saith he was numbered with the transgressors.
Now what's interesting is that whenever you see Jesus being arrested in the Garden of
Gethsemane, whether you're in Matthew, Mark, Luke or John, when Jesus is being arrested
he always says the same thing to them.
He said, you've come out against me as against a thief.
Have you ever noticed that?
He says, you know, you come out with swords and staves as it were against a thief.
And then it's funny because when they crucified him they put him between two thieves.
And then here it says he was counted among the transgressors.
So basically he's put in the same category as these two thieves that are hanging on the
cross.
It says next, and they in the past by railed on him, wagging their heads and saying, ah,
thou that destroyest that temple and buildest it in three days, save thyself and come down
from the cross.
Likewise also the chief priest mocking set among themselves with the scribes.
He saves himself, he cannot save.
Let Christ, the king of Israel, descend now from the cross that we may see and believe.
And then again it tells us that they that were crucified with him, reviled him.
Now go to Luke 23.
This story of the thief on the cross is only covered in Matthew, Mark and Luke.
That's the only place where these thieves are mentioned.
Now stop for a second.
As you're going to Luke 23, stop and think about something.
Why are two thieves being crucified?
Is that really what God had prescribed as a punishment for theft?
Think about it.
I mean when you go back to the Old Testament law, what kind of people were put to death?
Murderers were put to death, right?
People who raped or people who killed or people who kidnapped or did things like that.
Thieves would only be punished by having to pay back four-fold, five-fold or seven-fold,
but they never were killed for their crimes.
So it's interesting that these two thieves are being crucified with them because they're
basically being crucified under the Roman law, not under God's law, not under the biblical
law.
Because under the biblical law no one would be put to death for stealing.
But throughout history people have been put to death for stealing.
Even in the United States, you know, cattle rustlers, right, would have to be put to
death.
Or in England, around the time that our country was being colonized, people were put to death
for any type of theft.
People were being killed for theft.
That is not biblical.
That is not right.
The only time that the Bible talks about someone dying for theft is that the Bible says that
it's okay if a person breaks into your house at night, you can kill that person in self-defense.
Because you know, you don't know what they're there to do, you know, if they come in the
middle of the night.
So you are allowed in the Bible to kill that person in self-defense if they come into your
house at night.
But if it's in the daytime, the Bible says you are commanded not to kill that person.
If someone tries to rob you in the daytime, you are not allowed to kill that person and
if you do, you will be punished.
That's what the Bible teaches in the Old Testament.
So the death penalty is not something that should be put upon theft.
But yet these two thieves are being crucified and Christ is in their midst.
Look at Luke 23, verse 32.
It says there were also two other malefactors, and we know from the other scriptures that
these are thieves, led with him to be put to death.
And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him
and the malefactors, one on the right hand and the other on the left.
Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them for they know not what they do, and they parted
his raiment and cast lots, and the people stood beholding.
And the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others.
Let him save himself if he be the Christ the chosen of God.
And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar, and saying,
If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself.
Of course, that was prophesied that they would offer him vinegar.
And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek and Latin and Hebrew.
This is the king of the Jews.
And one of the malefactors, which were hanged, railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ,
save thyself and us.
But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Does not thou fear God, seeing thou art in
the same condemnation?
And we indeed justly for we received the due reward of our deeds, but this man had done
nothing amiss, and he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom.
And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, Today shalt thou be with me in paradise.
Now some would look at this and say, Well, this is a contradiction, because in Matthew
and Mark, you know, both of the thieves reviled him.
Both of them cast the same in his teeth.
And here it says that one rebuked the other.
Well, look, I believe both are true, because the Bible is God's word.
And you know, if the Bible contains a contradiction, it wouldn't be God's word.
So in order to reconcile these two passages, what we must assume is that in the beginning,
they both reviled him.
At some point, they both were saying the same thing, but somehow there's a change of heart
that takes place.
There's repentance that takes place.
There's a change in the mind of one thief.
Maybe it was when he saw him say, Father, forgive them for they know not what they do.
Maybe that powerful word out of the mouth of Christ, God is ginger, or maybe it was
one of the other statements that Jesus made.
But somehow he sat there and he heard the words of Jesus Christ, and somehow he changed
his mind and he decided that Jesus Christ really was the Son of God.
Somehow it just clicked with him and he understood.
And he rebukes the other guy.
Now, what's great about this story is that it's just a perfect example of salvation.
It has all the perfect elements of salvation.
Now, a lot of people will try to deny this story, or here's what they'll say.
Well, that was an exception.
This isn't an exception.
This is a textbook example of salvation.
And by the way, God doesn't make exceptions.
If God were going to make an exception, the Bible says in Romans 8 that God spared not
his own son.
So God spared not his own son, but delivered him up for assault.
When Jesus Christ was in the garden saying, Abba, Father, if it be possible, let this
cup pass from me, nevertheless not my will, but thine be done.
I mean, if God was ever going to turn a blind eye to sin, or let sin go unpunished, or make
a special exception, you know, wouldn't it have been for his own son?
Wouldn't it have been for Jesus Christ?
God doesn't make exceptions.
The soul that's sinned, it shall die.
And there's only one way to be saved.
The Bible says that salvation is by grace through faith, not of works lest any man should
boast.
And so salvation has always been by faith, even as Abraham also believed God.
And it was counted for righteousness.
And so this is not an exception, because you'll talk to people and they'll say, well, you
have to be baptized to be saved.
Say, what about the thief on the cross?
Well, that was an exception.
You know, he couldn't be baptized because he was on the cross.
Otherwise he would have had to be.
No, that's false.
Salvation is by faith.
But here's why it's such a great example.
Because number one, we know that he heard the word of God.
Because just up in the passage in verse 34, Jesus speaks, and he hears Jesus speak.
And say, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.
But we also know that if he's hanging next to him on the cross, he heard all the other
things that Jesus said to.
That all the other scriptures record that Jesus said.
If he's there right next to Jesus, he heard all of it.
So first of all, he heard the word of God.
Okay?
Then he believed on the Lord Jesus Christ.
Because and look what he says in verse number 40, it says, but the other answering rebuked
him saying, does not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation?
And watch this.
And we indeed justly.
So isn't he admitting that he's a sinner there?
He's basically admitting that he's a sinner.
Now, when he says that we're justly in this condemnation, you don't have to look at that
and say humanly speaking, he's wrong.
Because he does not deserve to be crucified just for being a thief.
But if we look at it in a spiritual way, he did deserve to die because the Bible says
the wages of sin is death.
So if we take a spiritual interpretation, it makes sense.
He said, we indeed justly, so he's admitting he's a sinner, for we receive the due reward
of our deeds.
He's not, does he look like he's trusting in his works?
Because see, the Bible uses the terms deeds and works interchangeably.
He says we're not saved by the works of the law.
And then he turns around and says we're not saved by the deeds of the law.
Deeds and works are interchangeable.
Basically what he's saying here is we're receiving the reward of our works and that
reward is death.
We are dying because of our deeds.
Basically, he's paraphrasing the wages of sin is death.
And we're sinners and that's what we're going to suffer here.
And then he says, but this man had done nothing amiss.
Now, look, what is Jesus being accused of?
Well, the Bible tells us, and you know, nothing in the Bible is an accident, just a few verses
earlier it tells us what the accusation is.
Now here he uses the word superscription.
But you know, in other of the four Gospels, it says his accusation was written.
You know, this is Jesus, the king of the Jews.
So basically by saying this man has done nothing amiss, look, he's being crucified for claiming
to be the son of God.
He's being crucified for claiming to be the king of the Jews.
He's being crucified for claiming to be God in the flesh, for claiming I am.
He said before Abraham was, I am.
And basically the thief is saying he hadn't done anything amiss.
Basically he's acknowledging that Jesus is who he said he is.
Then he said unto Jesus in verse 42, Lord, okay, so he's calling him Lord.
He's calling upon the name of the Lord.
He says, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom.
Look, he's dying.
He's basically believing the fact that even though Jesus is dying on the cross, he will
receive a kingdom.
I mean, that's amazing faith right there.
That's amazing understanding.
I mean that in some ways that's more understanding than Jesus' own disciples had.
And this guy sees it and he says, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom.
And Jesus said in him, verily I say unto thee, today shalt thou be with me in paradise.
So to review, basically he admitted he's a sinner, okay.
He understands the penalty for sin is death.
And this is all after hearing the word of God.
Then he looks to Jesus and he calls upon the name of the Lord and he asks to be saved just
by faith and he acknowledges that his deeds are nothing.
He says our deeds are what got us here.
Lord, save me is basically what he's saying when he says remember me when thou comest
into thy kingdom.
And Jesus said in him, verily I say unto thee, today shalt thou be with me in paradise.
Now just flip a few pages of the right in your Bible to John chapter 3 because a lot
of people will use this to say, well, you know, when Jesus died on the cross they'll
say Jesus went to heaven, you know, because, you know, you often ask people, well, when
Jesus died on the cross, we know his body was in the tomb, but where did his soul go?
Did his soul go to heaven or did his soul go to hell?
And they'll say, well, he told the thief on the cross, today shalt thou be with me in
paradise, so therefore we know Jesus was in heaven, but that is simply not true.
And again, we must make sure that the Bible never contradicts itself.
Over and over again the Bible teaches that Jesus Christ was in hell for three days and
three nights.
Acts 2.31 is the clearest scripture, this spakey of the resurrection of Christ that
his soul was not left in hell, neither did his flesh see corruption.
Also in Acts 2 it refers to Psalm 16 saying that it was Jesus talking that said, thou
wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption.
The Bible says that he descended into the lower parts of the earth.
He said, as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly, so also saw
the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
Not six feet under, but in the heart of the earth.
And so we know that Jesus Christ was dead for three days and three nights, because he said,
I am either liveth and was dead.
And behold, I am alive forevermore and have the keys of hell and of death.
He was dead.
Now, stop and think.
The place death is also known as hell.
The Bible talks about them descending into death, descending into hell, descending into
lower parts of the earth.
How about this?
Death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them.
So the place of death, the place where the dead are, just looks like it warns us of the
strange woman in Proverbs and it says, you know if not that the dead are there and that
her guests are in the depths of hell.
So those that are in hell, the Bible is very clear, they are considered, if we had to say,
are they alive or dead, they're dead, right?
How many people are burning in hell right now?
Billions.
Are they alive or are they dead, according to the Bible?
They are all dead.
They are not considered alive, because some people will say, well, you're going to live
somewhere for all eternity.
No, wrong.
Because they'll say, well, you know, eternal life, you know, eternal life, that doesn't
mean anything because, you know, you're going to live eternally in hell, wrong.
Because when they're coughed up out of hell at the great white throne, it says, it delivered
up the dead which were in them and the dead stood before God and the dead were judged
according to their works and the dead are in the depths of hell, according to Proverbs
and on and on.
So if Jesus was dead, that means he was in hell and the reason why his soul we're talking
about and the reason why is because if you remember, Jesus said, I'm the God of Abraham
and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob.
God is not the God of the dead but of the living.
So according to Jesus, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob who were in heaven were not dead but
they were alive.
So therefore if Jesus Christ died on the cross and then he went to heaven, then he wasn't
really dead.
He was alive.
You understand what I'm saying?
I mean, his body died.
But no, the Bible says his soul was in hell for three days and three nights.
Now the only way for you to teach that Jesus was not in hell for three days and three nights
is to say that the King James Bible is translated wrong.
And that's what people will say.
They'll just say, well, you know, the Bible is just not translated right.
But that's really the only argument you could make because if the King James Bible is your
final authority, it says he went to hell and hell means hell and hell always is a bad place.
It's always fire.
It's always, you know, the heart of the earth and so forth.
Now, people will say this though, they'll say, well, you know, when the Bible says that
Jesus went to paradise, okay, you know, that's not talking about heaven.
That's talking about hell, you know, because hell's paradise, right?
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
But I mean, you know, this is the doctrine.
This is what they taught me in Bible college, you know, that there's the good side of hell
called paradise.
Okay.
Now you say, well, Pastor Anderson, he said he was going to be with the thief today in
paradise.
If you're saying he went to hell in three days for three nights, you know, how does that
work?
Well, look at John chapter three for the answer in verse 13 and it says, and no man hath ascended
up to heaven.
Now, now stop right there.
Does that say no one's ever gone to heaven?
No.
It says no one's ever ascended up to heaven.
Okay.
Now, if you have a new international version, the non-inspired version, the NIV, it says
no one's ever gone to heaven.
Now that's an outright lie because the Bible tells us that Elijah went to heaven in a whirlwind.
The Bible teaches, you know, that in Ecclesiastes that the spirit of the beast goes downward
into the earth and the spirit of man goes upward.
Okay.
So to say no one's ever gone to heaven is just completely false.
What about Enoch when he walked with God and God took him?
Where'd God take him?
Obviously, he took him to heaven.
Okay.
That's why Elijah was caught up in a whirlwind or, you know, the fiery chariot into the whirlwind.
Now it says here no man has ascended up to heaven.
Do you see a difference between ascending to heaven and just going to heaven?
See ascending to heaven is like what Jesus did when he ascended of his own power.
He basically ascended up into heaven.
Elijah was carried to heaven.
Okay.
He was brought to heaven.
Even remember the rich man in Lazarus and Lazarus was carried by the angels?
Debra and Basil?
He didn't ascend there on his own.
They were brought unto heaven.
Enoch was not because God took him.
Enoch didn't just ascend up to heaven on his own.
But it says here no man hath ascended up to heaven but he that came down from heaven,
meaning except for he that came down from heaven.
Even the Son of Man which is in heaven.
Now let me ask you this.
Was Jesus in heaven while he said that?
But where did he say the Son of Man was?
Heaven.
So doesn't that show that Jesus Christ basically in a sense is outside of time?
Because he's saying it as past tense.
No one has ascended up to heaven except me.
Now had Jesus chronologically ascended up to heaven at this point?
He didn't ascend up until the end of his ministry, after his death-bearing resurrection.
He's not going to ascend up to heaven until Acts chapter 1.
But yet here he's speaking of it as if it's already happened.
Because in Romans 4 the Bible tells us that God speaks of the things which be not as though
they were.
He knows the end from the beginning.
Jesus Christ was God in the flesh and therefore he said the Son of Man is in heaven right
now as he's talking to Nicodemus.
Now you say well how could Jesus say that?
Because Jesus Christ is God.
Now yes there's the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost and yes the Son and the Father
are separate but these three are one at the same time.
Now we don't fully understand this but somehow the Bible teaches that there's the Father,
the Son and the Holy Ghost and these three are one.
And so therefore if the thief dies on the cross and immediately goes to heaven he's
with Jesus Christ in a sense because he's with God and guess what?
God and Jesus are the same person.
And so again you can sit there and split hairs and play games with wording and well are they
the same person or are they different entities?
You can use all this wording but look just believe the Bible.
The three are one.
If Jesus says I'm in heaven right now while I'm talking to Nicodemus then couldn't he
be also in hell for three days and three nights and still be telling the truth when he tells
the thief you're going to be with me in paradise when he goes up to be with the Lord in paradise
in heaven?
Now you say well wait a minute Pastor I have to prove that paradise is heaven okay.
Well first of all don't you think everything we believe should be based on the Bible and
nothing else?
Shouldn't everything come from the Bible?
Okay well the word paradise is mentioned three times in the Bible.
Now here's what I think is funny.
People will teach well paradise is where the Old Testament saints went when they died.
They didn't go to heaven they went to paradise.
Here's what's funny paradise is never mentioned in the Old Testament.
So that's where you know in the Old Testament they went to paradise in the New Testament
they went to heaven but every time I look up verses on paradise they're all in the New
Testament.
Isn't that a little strange?
If it's this Old Testament place for saints to go okay well here's what's interesting.
If we look at all three mentions of paradise mention number one is where Jesus tells the
thief on the cross today shout out be with me in paradise.
Go to 2 Corinthians chapter 12 let's look at the second mention because look if we're
going to get our doctrine on paradise from the Bible then that means that we need to
look up all three times that paradise is mentioned and then decide where we think it is and not
just say well I think it's the good side of hell okay hell doesn't have a good side
okay it says in 2 Corinthians and by the way show me one verse in the Bible that uses
the word hell as a positive place ever ever look up all 54 mentions of hell show me which
one is a positive mention.
Even when it mentions Jesus being in hell for three days and three nights it says that
the only reason that his soul is resting in hope is that he's not going to be left in
hell so basically his hope is that he's getting out of there so it's not ever mentioned as
a positive place I mean I know this sounds a little basic when I'm up here preaching
that hell's a bad place and every time it's mentioned it's always bad but people teach
this doctrine but look if you would at 2 Corinthians 12 it says in verse 2 I knew a man in Christ
about 14 years ago whether in the body I cannot tell or whether out of the body I cannot
tell God knoweth such in one caught up to the third heaven so where was this guy caught
up to?
The third heaven and I knew such a man whether in the body or out of the body I cannot tell
God knoweth how that he was caught up where?
Into paradise now was he caught down to paradise he was caught up into paradise and heard unspeakable
words which is not lawful for man to utter now look here the Bible defines itself and
the Bible often defines itself by making the same statement twice using two different words
showing us that those two words mean the same thing so he says this man was caught into
the third heaven this man was caught into paradise so from this scripture it's clear
that paradise and the third heaven are the same place can't be any clearer right and
then in Revelation chapter 2 is the next mention it says Tim that overcomeeth let me find my
place here Tim that overcomeeth will I give to eat of the tree of life this is at the
end of verse 7 which is in the midst of the paradise of God so again the Bible telling
us that those who overcome and the Bible defines that a few chapters earlier when it tells
us this is the victory that overcomeeth the world even our faith who is he that overcomeeth
the world but he that believeeth that Jesus is the son of God the Bible tells us that
we believe on the Lord Jesus Christ we are the one that overcomeeth and he says we that
overcome will eat of the tree of life which is in the midst of the paradise of God and
look when we die we're going to heaven and in John chapter 14 the Bible says in my father's
house are many mansions he says I go to prepare a place for you and he says I'm going to come
again and receive you unto myself that where I am there you may be also and where is Jesus
seated at the right hand of the father he said when he comes at the second coming when
the trumpet sounds he's going to receive us unto himself that where he is there we may
be also and we will be in heaven we will be eating of the tree of life which is in the
midst of the paradise of God now those that's it my friend so which which of those three
mentions sounds like it's hell sounds like it's in the center of the earth sounds like
it's another compartment a holding tank for Old Testament saints it's not biblical so
if you believe that paradise is a holding tank for Old Testament saints you know that
didn't come from looking up the word paradise in the Bible you know maybe it came from
looking up the word paradise and I don't want to spend the whole sermon on that I've spent
whole sermons debunking that and showing a lot more scriptures of Old Testament saints
going to heaven and being in heaven and all these different things I don't want to spend
the whole sermon on that but I just wanted to cover that briefly just while we're talking
about the thief on the cross let's look at Barabbas now go to Matthew 27 Matthew 27 so
we saw that the thief on the cross was a sinful man was he not he was a malefactor he was
a thief did he deserve to be crucified no he did not deserve to be crucified but he did
deserve death for his sins on a spiritual level okay he was dying on the cross next
to Jesus he reviled Jesus but yet Jesus forgave him of that because Jesus could have just looked
at it and said no you were just reviling me you were just blaspheming me but yet Jesus
Christ forgave him I mean isn't that something I mean you're hanging on the cross you know
nails in your hands excruciating pain and by the way the word excruciating comes from
the word cross excruciating comes from the word CRUC comes from the word like crucifixion
excruciating he's an excruciating pain he's suffering he's an agony the Bible says and
yet he finds it is hard to forgive the guy who just finished making fun of him who just
finished reviling him and mocking him this guy was a textbook example of salvation he
admits he's a sinner he hears the word of God he believes on Christ he calls upon the
name of the Lord he gets saved and by the way he was saved instantly in a moment he
was born again he's a child of God he saved now let's look at Barabbas another guy that's
in the story it says in Matthew 27 15 now at that feast the governor was want to release
under the people of prisoner whom they would meaning who they wanted and they had then
a notable prisoner called Barabbas so this is a high profile prisoner this is a famous
prisoner named Barabbas it says therefore when they were gathered together Pilate sent
him whom will you that I released under you Barabbas or Jesus which is called Christ for
he knew that for envy they had delivered him when he was sat down on the judgment seat
his wife sent unto him saying how about nothing to do with that just man for I've suffered
many things this day in a dream because of him but the chief priests and elders persuaded
the multitude that they should ask Barabbas and destroy Jesus the governor answered and
said to them whether of the twain will you that I released under you they said Barabbas
Pilate sayeth unto them what shall I do then with Jesus which is which is called Christ
they all say unto him let him be crucified and the governor said why what evil had he
done but they cried out the more saying let him be crucified when Pilate saw that he could
prevail nothing but that rather a tumult was made he took water and washed his hands before
the multitude saying I'm innocent of the blood of this just person see ye to it then answered
all the people and said and by the way these are some of the most chilling words in the
Bible his blood beyond us and on our children wow then released he Barabbas unto them and
when he had scourged Jesus he delivered and be crucified there's so much going on here
but like you know we don't have to turn there but it's interesting in Deuteronomy 21 we
have the scripture about when they find a dead body out in the field okay and Deuteronomy
chapter one the Bible describes that sometimes they go out in the field they find a dead
body laying there and they you know it's there's been foul play someone has murdered this person
and you know they didn't have the DNA and forensics back then so basically they find
this dead body and they were supposed to perform a ritual where they would find the city that
was the closest to that dead body and they would bring the elders of that city and everybody
would basically swear and say I don't know who killed this person I don't know who committed
this crime and basically they would pray to God that you know that they would be forgiven
for not carrying out justice because you know God holds man responsible to bring murderers
to justice okay and so basically they knew that the only way to clear themselves of innocent blood
was to shed the blood of the one who had shed the blood so they were supposed to kill the murderer
and put him to death well he said if you don't know who the murderer is they're supposed to all
swear and say you know we don't know who committed this crime they shall answer and say our hands
have not shed this blood neither have our eyes seen it and the bible says that they were supposed
to wash their hands they were gonna they killed a heifer as a sacrifice and then they shed the
blood and then they would wash their hands saying you know what we are innocent of the blood of
this person now was pilot innocent well if we use deuteronomy 21 to examine pilot part of what
they had to say in order to be innocent was our hands have not shed this blood neither have our eyes
seen it now could pilot really say that so deuteronomy 21 7 teaches that when they would wash
their hands they had to swear an oath that said our hands have not shed this blood neither have
our eyes seen it and you know pilot by observing allowing it to take place giving them the green
light saying take ye him and crucify him and then washing his hands he was not innocent he was guilty
okay and so that proves that pilot was guilty even though he washed his hands he still had
blood on his hands even though he physically washed his hands look at mark chapter 15 mark
chapter number 15 i don't want to spend too much time on pilot because i want to focus on barabbas
but it's just interesting how you know you read through exodus leviticus and deuteronomy
these books of the law and when you're reading them sometimes you think you know what is the
point of all this or this is boring or something but you know if you think about it in terms of
of the lord jesus christ there's so much symbolism the sacrifices the lambs the bullocks the calves
the goats all representing the blood of christ and and you know representing pilot when they're
washing their hands and you know we can see all that and so you know always be looking for jesus
in all these passages when you're looking at the old testament but look at mark 15 6 it says now at
that feast he released unto them one prisoner whosoever they desired and there was one named
barabbas which lay bound with them that had made insurrection with them so we find out a little
more in mark in matthew we knew that he was a notable prisoner he was a famous prisoner here
we get a little more detail it says he was bound with them that had made insurrection with him
who had committed murder in the insurrection so basically now we find out that barabbas was one
that had started a rebellion of some sort and and he had other co-conspirators with whom he made
this rebellion a committed murder in the process that's what he's guilty of murder that's why he
is said to be crucified so these two thieves i mean you know they're being crucified for theft
this guy's being crucified for murder okay it says in verse eight in the multitude crying
aloud began to desire him to do as he ever had done unto them but pilot answered them saying will
you that i released unto you the king of the jews for he knew that the chief priest had delivered
him for envy but the chief priest moved the people that he should rather release barabbas
unto them and pilot answered and said unto them what will ye then that i shall do unto him whom
ye call the king of the jews and they cried out crucify him and pilots said to them why what
evil had he done and they cried out the more exceedingly crucify him and so pilot willing to
content the people released barabbas unto them and delivered jesus when he had scourged him
to be crucified go to luke 23 luke chapter 23 it's interesting because barabbas is actually in all
four gospels barabbas mentioned in matthew mark luke and john so he's a significant character
you know god only brought up certain details in all four gospels very significant details and
this is one of them it says in luke 23 uh look if you would at verse 16 i will therefore chastise
him and release him wanting to just chastise jesus and release him for a necessity he must release
one unto them at the feast and they cried out all at once saying away with this man and release
unto us barabbas who for a certain sedition now sedition is synonymous with insurrection
and for murder was cast into prison pilot therefore willing to release jesus spake
again to them but they cried saying crucify him crucify him and again it says in verse 25 he released
unto them him that for sedition and murder was cast into prison whom they had desired but he
delivered jesus to their will now go to john 18 the last place we'll see about barabbas john chapter
18 the bible says in verse 38 pilot sayeth unto him what is truth and when he had said this he
went out again unto the jews and sayeth unto them i find in him no fault at all but you have a custom
that i should release unto you one at the Passover will you therefore that i release unto you the
king of the jews then cried they all again saying not this man but barabbas now look at this now
barabbas was a robber now isn't that different than what the other passages said and matthew
had just said he was a notable prisoner and mark it said it was an insurrection and murder
and luke it agreed with that and said it was sedition and murder same thing here it says that
he was a robber now is the bible contradicting itself no obviously he had done both obviously he
was a robber he was probably a robber by trade he'd been a habitual robber and then he did this
insurrection and murder and so forth now what is the deal with barabbas now i've thought about
barabbas a lot and go if you would to leviticus chapter 16 because i think leviticus chapter 16
is a scripture that would that would prophesy of barabbas now it would make sense that there
would be an old testament prophecy of barabbas because he is a significant character that appears
in all four gospels so it would make sense that something in the old testament would point us
to barabbas because so many other things about the crucifixion are predicted in the old testament
you know the part about him being numbered with the transgressors the part about him receiving
gall and vinegar to drink the part about them casting lots and and and and uh dividing up his
garments and so forth the the exact things that they would uh mock him when he was on the cross
and that they would wag their heads just the fact that he was going to be numbered with the transgressors
and all these different details that are given barabbas is also predicted in the old testament
i believe in luke chapter 16 now luke chapter 16 gives us a scripture about what the bible calls
the scapegoat okay now we've probably all heard that term that you know somebody being a scapegoat
now when we in in modern day america when we say that someone's a scapegoat what we're saying is
that someone takes the blame for stuff that they didn't really do wrong right so basically like
let's say something goes wrong at work right basically someone is picked where they're going
to be the scapegoat they're going to be or sometimes we'll call this the fall guy have you
ever heard that term like the fall guy is like the scapegoat it basically means that you know
this is the guy who's going to take the fall he's going to take all the blame for something that he
didn't even do we're going to throw him under the bus he's going to be made the scapegoat he's not
really guilty but he's taking the guilt and he's going to be punished for what he didn't even do
now that is not what the bible means when it says scapegoat so when we use the word scapegoat
we're not really using it in the biblical sense now there is a little bit of truth in the way we
use it in in in modern day english well let's read it and then we'll talk about it but look at luke
16 verse number seven it says he shall take the two goats and this is on the day of atonement they
would do this so take the two goats and present them before the lord at the door of the tabernacle
of the congregation and iron shall cast lots upon the two goats one lot for the lord and the other
lot for the scapegoat so basically you know this is the equivalent of flipping a coin basically
there's going to be a random choice two goats are brought the two goats are the same they basically
randomly decide which goat is going to be the lord's goat right and which goat is going to be
the scape goat so we see how one is for the lord and one is for the scape goat okay it says in
verse nine an errand shall bring the goat upon which the lord's lot fell and offer him for a sin
offering but the goat on which the lot fell to be the scape goat shall be presented alive before
the lord to make an atonement with him and to let him go for a scape goat into the wilderness
now he begins to talk about another subject about the ritual about bolux that are being
sacrificed and slain in their blood shed jump down to verse 20 to finish up with the scape goat
it says in verse 20 when he had made an end of reconciling the holy place and the tabernacle
of the congregation in the altar he shall bring the live goat the live goat is the scape goat
because remember we got two goats we randomly decide okay this one's for the lord this one's
the scape goat they take the lord's goat and they sacrifice him shed his blood and offer him for
an offering eventually he's going to be burned with fire okay the scape goat is left alive so in
verse 20 he takes the live goat and errand shall lay both his hands upon the head of the live goat
and confess over him all the iniquities of the children of israel and all their transgressions
all of a sudden putting them upon the head of the goat and shall send him away by the hand of a
fit man in the wilderness so you can see where the modern definition of scape goat comes from don't
you because they're basically confessing the sins of the nation and putting it on the goat
so that's why when people talk about a scape goat it's someone who's being blamed for stuff that
they didn't do so that's why you know here all these sins are being put on this goat you know
that didn't do any of that stuff and so the scape goat in modern day vernacular is one who takes
the blame for others but the difference is that in our modern day vernacular when we talk about
a scape goat that person's taken the punishment that person's busted here the scape goat is so
called because it's escaping punishment it is escaping into the wilderness it is not the one
that's being killed okay so it says here that errand shall bring the goat or i'm sorry look at
verse 21 errand shall lay both his hands upon the head of the live goat and confess over him
all the iniquities of the children of israel all their transgressions and all their sins putting
them upon the head of the goat and he shall send him away by the hand of a fit man into the wilderness
and the goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities unto a land not inhabited and he shall let go the
goat in the wilderness now this scripture talking about the scape goat you know there's a lot of
controversy surrounding it you know i've heard a lot of different interpretations on this now
growing up in church i always have heard the only way i've ever heard this preached was that the
scapegoats jesus that's what i've heard all the time scapegoats jesus but if you think about the
story is jesus i mean i i can understand how sometimes symbolism in the bible can have
different levels of interpretation and maybe things can represent more than one thing i get that
but if we're looking at the primary interpretation here you know if there are two goats one of them's
for the lord and one of them's for the scapegoat and the one is being sacrificed and killed and the
blood shed for the atonement for the people wouldn't it make more sense that that represents christ
dying for their sins shedding his blood for their sins because if you think about it this parallels
exactly with the story of jesus and barabbas because a lot of people will say well who does
the scapegoat represent you know a lot of people will say the scapegoat represents jesus and that's
what i was always taught jesus is the scapegoat of leviticus okay but but wait a minute did he really
was he the one that escaped or was he the one that got killed and then other people say well
the scapegoat is satan okay and they have these different interpretations but but honestly if we
look at this the clearest interpretation here just the basic surface interpretation is clearly
that the scapegoat represents barabbas and here's why you know basically uh jesus is represented by
the goat that's killed for their sins and the scapegoat represents for barabbas because what
because he escapes he's not killed okay and if you think about it you know i've always thought in
the past and i've even i've even preached this and i don't think it's necessarily wrong to preach
this but you know you kind of when you read the story of barabbas you know you can kind of see
it as a picture of salvation and in a sense it is because if you think about it well jesus is our
substitute right jesus died for our sins well here's a guy barabbas who was guilty right i mean
barabbas was a robber barabbas was a murderer in acts you know when peter refers back to this
he said you denied the holy one in the just and desired a murderer to be granted unto you he says
to the jews so he's calling this guy a murderer and the bible calls him a murderer and a robber
and so forth so we know the guy was a bad guy he was a guilty criminal by the way i heard a funny
quote the other day they said democracy is the system that chooses barabbas over jesus you know
and that's how it works you know whenever you go with the crowd right the crowd's going to go with
barabbas not jesus and you know what it was just a few people who stirred up the crowd and that's
what happens in a democracy is that you have these people called demagogues which in this case was the
chief priests and the scribes who stir up the people and brainwash them and go on tv and tell them
what to do and then they just mindlessly oh give us barabbas you know because they're just brainwash
by you know uh chief you know cnn is like chief priest news network you know what i mean like
basically they're brainwashed by the chief priests and the scribes to choose barabbas now if you stop
and think about it yes i believe that there is an interpretation and i've preached it and i still see
there's an interpretation of here's a guy who's guilty who goes free here's an innocent guy being
crucified that's a picture of the substitutionary atonement of christ on the cross i believe that
that makes sense but if we stop and think about it on a human level that's symbolic but stop and
think about it is there really any evidence that barabbas ever believed on christ or got saved
or anything i mean is there any evidence like that i mean the bible tells a lot about barabbas i mean
we see him four times and then he's mentioned an act so really five times this guy's mentioned
i mean if he got saved or if he believed on christ or if he realized wow jesus is taking my place up
there that cross was intended for me and jesus is on that cross you know wouldn't that have been
mentioned in one of the five times but it never is so from all we see barabbas was a bad guy
and he continued to be a bad guy i mean we don't really see anything good about barabbas
he's a murderer he's in this rebellion he's a robber he's supposed to be killed and look who
chose barabbas very wicked people right the the reprobate leaders of the children of israel
who jesus said would have no forgiveness in this world or in the world to come who he said you
can't believe your hearts have been hardened you know the Pharisees and the scribes and the chief
these wicked rulers okay they wanted barabbas they loved barabbas they chose barabbas over
christ and there's no mention of barabbas ever being saved so although yeah barabbas does picture
the substitutionary atonement of christ he only pictures it in the sense that jesus christ even
died for those that didn't even get saved because he died for everybody okay but but but really
barabbas is not a picture of a guy who got saved and if you stop and think about it
barabbas is like the opposite of the thief on the cross think about this now barabbas is the
opposite of the thief on the cross here's the thief on the cross okay he's being crucified
in my opinion doesn't really even deserve to be there okay he's killed physically but
he saved spiritually and he goes to heaven barabbas on the other hand is spared physical death
but is probably burning in hell right now for all that we know okay because i believe that if anything
you know in leviticus 16 you know the scapegoat is the scapegoat satan you know i don't know
that's possible and and you know again i'm just giving you the evidence for both sides because
if you look at leviticus 16 he talks about a fit man carrying the scapegoat into the wilderness
okay and you know maybe you could tie that in with the the strong angel because what does fit mean
if i said hey he's a fit man what am i saying he's in good shape he's strong right so it's a fit man
he has to be strong enough to basically carry this goat and he has to take it to a place that's
uninhabited you know so back to the ultramarathon sermon you know he's got to run out into the
wilderness carrying this goat taking this goat to a really far away place and drop it off where
it's not near anybody okay so that could be tied in within revelation when there's a the bible
tells a strong angel comes from you know bind satan and cast him into the bottomless pit okay so
that you know and again i'm not saying i believe that i'm saying that's possible that is one
interpretation so uh you know the scapegoat could represent satan because you'll notice a lot of
people who worship satan have you noticed that they use a lot of goat symbols think about that now
because they use these goat head symbols and they're upside down star with the circle around it's
like a picture of a goat and even the streets in washington dc or in the shape of a goat's head
has anybody ever looked at that i remember the first time i got microsoft streets and trips
my dad had always told me about them being in the shape of i'm just having to check that out you know
so i just typed it into the map you know or you can map quest it just typed in washington dc and
boom you're like whoa it's an upside down star right there at the uh at the capital who's ever
seen that before yeah pretty much everybody in the room but yeah check it out in the map
but it's a the reason that upside down star is a satanic or a masonic symbol
is because of the fact that it represents a goat's head and you'll you'll see a lot of satanic
you know rock bands they'll make a goat head or even you know they'll do that thing with their
fingers where they make like a picture of like a goat head with their fingers and they basically
want to symbolize that you know so you know and and and here's the thing biblically speaking
the bible talks about the saved as being the sheep and the goat you know separating the sheep
from the goat so you know there could be something to that but i'll say this more than anything
one thing we can know for sure is that in leviticus 16 the scapegoat definitely represents
barabas you know the one who's being set free guilty with all that guilt of sin upon him
but he escapes he gets away he he goes away um and of course the bible talks about barabas
being a murderer and the bible talks about satan being a murderer because the bible says
year of your father the devil the lust of your father you will do he was a murderer from the
beginning and a boat not in the truth because there's no truth in him when he speak at the lie
he speaketh of his own for he is a liar and the father of it so we see these two men the thief on
the cross and barabas one was spared physically but in all that we can see from the bible
damned spiritually damned eternally that's barabas and then we see the man who was not spared
physically he was he was condemned physically but he was spared spiritually and he went to heaven
today he was in paradise so again you know what's a man profited if he shall gain the whole world
and lose his own soul and it's interesting that barabas called a robber and the thief on the cross
is a thief you know basically similar crimes there so there's a lot of interesting symbolism here
and what i want to say is this you know as we study the bible understand that everything in the
bible whether you're in genesis exodus leviticus numbers deuteron you know it all points to jesus
christ that's why the bible says to him give all the prophets witness that through his name
whosoever believeth shall receive remission of sins okay and and you know and that's another
thing is that you know the scapegoat when he runs off into the wilderness his blood is in shed
and the bible says without the shedding of blood there is no remission you know he carries the sins
off into a far country you know could that picture the fact that our sins are separated us as far as
the east is from the west it's possible but anyway it's interesting to study and i i hope that you'll
you'll think about that and read that as you're studying leviticus and you get into these sections
and you get bought what is it the goat the live goat the day you know what is it but you know what
it's all about jesus it's all about the gospel and we can learn these truths of the gospel by
studying the old testament and you know we ought to understand that this story is the most important
story in the bible you know is the crucifixion of christ we ought to study why don't love this
story and read it often read it in matthew read in mark read in luke read in john and and understand
that this is something that we need to remember that jesus christ died this brutal death for us
and you know we're just as guilty in many ways as barabbas you know we've we've been rebellious
maybe we haven't committed murder but you know what we've probably been a thief in our lives
probably stolen something in our lives i mean probably everybody in here has stolen something
at one time or another or we you know we or we were dishonest on the job or whatever okay i'm not
saying that you're out shoplifting you know probably most people in this room have not
shoplifting hopefully but uh you know who here has been shoplifting no i'm just kidding but anyway
you know probably very few people in this room have done any shoplifting but you know what
you know we we've we've stolen in other ways you know you didn't give an honest day's work
for that eight hours of pay or whatever or you were deceptive on the job whatever you've sorry you
took something small or whatever the case may be but you know what we've all sinned we all deserve
we're all deserving of death okay and you could say well yeah but this thief was a really bad guy
that's why he's being crucified he didn't even commit anything worthy of being crucified according
to god he had committed what god considered a smaller crime that was not worthy of death
and so look you might have committed a small crime but we're still worthy of death
and thanks be to god for his unspeakable gift thanks thanks be to god for the blood of christ
that cleanses us from all sin and you know we uh you know we ought to follow the thief on the cross
example not barabas's example you know because we might think oh man barabas he had it made
so what he died and went to hell in all likelihood the thief on the cross yeah he died of brutal death
but he's in eternity he's glorified with christ for all eternity so don't ever be envious of the
barabas's of this world who seem to escape punishment don't look at the scapegoat with envy
you know and think oh man the scapegoat you know he gets to survive you know they they they rolled
the dice right and basically decided which goat's gonna live and which goat's gonna die which goat
was the lucky goat you know if you think about it jesus christ when he died on the cross he's been
glorified forever more he he's he's basically you know rejoicing with great joy whereas you know
the the the scapegoat if it represents satan yeah he's escaped for the time being he still hasn't
been punished i mean has satan been punished yet no but we know what his end is just like barabas's
end hell eternity in hell okay and so don't be envious of the barabas's of this world you know
understand that it's all about the blood of christ and and what's a man profited if he gains the whole
world and loses his own soul right and so i hope you'll study this story and and love this story
because this story is the the the heart of the bible the death, burial and resurrection of christ
let's pray and have a word of prayer father thank you so much for the story and the things that we
can learn from it help us to study your word and learn more about the gospel and learn more about
the death, burial and resurrection thank you for the story about the thief on the cross and barabas
to contrast two men one who suffered in this life and one who suffered in the next please help us to
study and and to and to share this message with as many people as possible that we could preach
the glorious gospel to every creature in g
