Man, good morning everyone.
It's good to be up here, beautiful day outside.
And we're having a prophecy conference right now
down in Phoenix.
And I've been part of that over the last three days.
So this morning I'm bringing a little bit
of the prophecy conference up to you here in Prescott Valley.
So I'm preaching this morning on the subject of Ezekiel.
I'm sorry, let me back up.
Bible prophecy in Ezekiel.
End Times Bible Prophecy in Ezekiel
is the title of the sermon.
We're gonna go back to Ezekiel
and get some End Times Bible Prophecy from that book.
But first let's start out here in Revelation chapter 20.
And I wanna point out a few things here.
The Bible says in verse number seven,
and when the thousand years are expired,
Satan shall be loosed out of his prison
and shall go out to deceive the nations
which are in the four quarters of the earth,
Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle,
the number of whom is as the sand of the sea.
And they went up on the breadth of the earth
encompassed the camp of the saints about
and fire came down from God out of heaven and devoured them.
And the devil that deceived them was cast
into the lake of fire and brimstone
where the beast and the false prophet are
and shall be tormented day and night forever and ever.
So in this scripture, we see mention
of the millennial reign of Christ,
the believers living and reigning with Christ
for a thousand years.
And during that time,
the world's gonna be a wonderful place to live in.
There's gonna be peace on earth,
lions are gonna eat straw,
they're not even gonna attack a human being.
The Bible says during that time,
a little child would be able to just play
with a snake out in the wild
and not have to be worried about anything.
So that's gonna be a beautiful,
perfect time on this earth,
but there are gonna be a lot of people
at the end of that that are not satisfied with that.
You know, no matter how good things are,
certain wicked people, they're just never gonna be happy,
they're never gonna be satisfied.
So at the end of that thousand years
of Jesus Christ ruling and reigning on this earth,
there is going to be a group of people
that rebel against Jesus Christ
and they wanna come up against him.
And that's what the Bible says happens.
In verse seven, after that thousand years is over,
the devil is released out of hell
because he's been locked in hell for that thousand years,
which is part of why the earth
is such a great place during that time
because the devil's not deceiving anyone.
But after that thousand years are expired,
the devil's loosed out of his prison
and he goes out to deceive the nations
which are in the four quarters of the earth.
And then the Bible just throws in these three words
that are a little bit random.
It just says Gog and Magog.
And then it says that he's gonna gather them together
to battle the number of whom is as the sand of the sea
and they went up on the breadth of the earth
and compassed the camp of the saints about
and the beloved city and fire came down from God
out of heaven and devoured them.
So all these people come and they gather against Jesus Christ
and they gather against the saints
and they wanna overthrow this thousand year reign of Christ
and they don't even get to do battle
because fire ends up raining from heaven
and just destroying them all.
And then we get into the great white throne,
the new heaven and the new earth.
Okay, with that in mind,
let's go back to the book of Ezekiel.
There's not a lot of detail in that story.
That crammed a lot of events just into a couple of verses.
Almost no detail, in fact, is given in Revelation 20.
Go back to Ezekiel 37.
It pretty much just tells us
that there's gonna be a thousand year reign of Christ.
After that, people are gonna rebel
and God's gonna send fire and destroy them.
Really, just a quick couple of verses
to describe these big events.
But remember those three little words
that were just kind of plugged in there,
Gog and Magog.
Well, what that is is a clue to you
to go back to the book of Ezekiel
to get more detail about that
since he only gave it a couple of verses
because there's only one other place in the whole Bible
that mentions Gog and Magog
and that's back in Ezekiel chapter 38.
So that's a signal to us when we're reading Revelation 20
that if we want more detail about the millennium,
if we want more detail about Gog and Magog
and this great battle to go back to the book of Ezekiel.
Now Ezekiel is a pretty tough book to a lot of people.
It's got a lot of really strong meat of the word,
a lot of really deep things in it.
It's a lot harder to read than the book of Revelation.
But I think as you see this morning,
if we look at this, we can make sense of it
and it's gonna be pretty clear to you by the time I'm done.
Now Ezekiel chapter 37 is that famous chapter
about the dry bones.
Who knows that song?
Them bones, them bones, them dry bones.
You heard that song before?
The leg bones connected to the foot bone.
All right, that comes from this chapter
actually believe it or not
because Ezekiel has taken to this valley of dry bones
and there are just all these bones.
And I mean, these people have been dead a long time, right?
He's not seeing even just bodies.
I mean, he just sees very,
he says these bones are very dry.
Now, if you know anything about bones,
they have inside them bone marrow, right?
So if you break open a bone, it's not dry on the inside.
There's actually moisture there.
But as a bone would get very, very old,
that's all just gonna completely dry out, right?
So he's taken to a valley where he sees people
that have been dead for a long time.
And he's asked the question,
son of man, can these bones live?
And he says, you know, thou knowest, I don't know, right?
Well, of course they do live.
They end up, the bones start connecting
to one another.
Imagine what that would be like to see.
All these bones just start connecting
and they just start building skeletons
and then all of a sudden sinews come on them
and flesh comes on them
and they become living people once again,
a great army of human beings.
So in verse 11 of chapter 37,
God starts to interpret what this means.
It says in verse 11,
then he said unto me, son of man,
these bones are the whole house of Israel.
Behold, they say our bones are dried
and our hope is lost, we're cut off for our parts.
Therefore prophesy and say unto them,
thus sayeth the Lord God, behold, O my people,
I'll open up your graves and cause you to come up
out of your graves and bring you into the land of Israel.
And ye shall know that I am the Lord
when I have opened your graves, O my people,
and brought you up out of your graves
and shall put my spirit in you and ye shall live
and I will place you in your own land,
then shall ye know that I the Lord have spoken it
and performed it, sayeth the Lord.
So this is pointing us to end times Bible prophecy
because there's gonna be a great resurrection
in the end times, right?
Of all those who were saved, who died
and their bodies were buried, their souls went to heaven,
but their bodies have been laying in the earth
for a very long time, just like those dry bones
were very dry, they've been dead a long time.
So what's going to happen is that when Jesus Christ
comes in the clouds and the trumpet sounds at the rapture,
the Bible says that dead in Christ shall rise first.
Now, a lot of times when people see that,
they think to themselves, oh,
that's just the New Testament saints.
That's just the people that were saved
after the time of Christ.
But there were a lot of people that were saved
before the time of Christ, right?
People throughout the Old Testament
and the great men of the Old Testament
like Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob,
they called upon the name of the Lord, they were saved.
So when are they gonna be resurrected?
Some people have a strange belief
that they've already been resurrected,
but of course that isn't true
because if you remember in Acts chapter two
when Peter's preaching, he said that David's sepulchre
remains unto us until this day.
David is not ascended into the heavens.
His body is in the grave.
So if his body was still in the grave in Acts two,
guess what, it's still in the grave right now as well.
But when that trumpet sounds
and the dead in Christ rise first,
that's when David's body is gonna be resurrected.
You see, even the Old Testament saints were still in Christ.
Even though Jesus had not come
because the Bible says that Christ is the Lamb of God
slain from the foundation of the world, okay?
So they were still in Christ.
They looked forward to the cross.
We look back on the cross,
but they were still saved by the blood of Jesus.
That's the only way anybody could ever be saved
is through the blood of Jesus Christ.
It's not possible for the blood of bulls and goats
to take away sins.
It's the blood of Christ that saves us.
So at that event of the rapture,
all of the dead saints of all ages
are going to be resurrected.
They're gonna come back to life, right?
They're going to be resurrected, brought back to life.
And when it comes to the nation of Israel,
they are going to be placed in their own land
and they're going to live in that promised land of Israel.
And they're gonna reign with Christ there for a thousand
years, say, how do you know that?
Well, Jesus told his 12 apostles.
He said that in the regeneration,
which is another word for the resurrection
or coming back to life after the rapture,
he said in the regeneration,
the 12 apostles would sit on 12 thrones,
judging the 12 tribes of Israel.
So that means the 12 tribes of Israel
from the Old Testament are gonna come up out of their graves.
They're gonna be caught up.
They're gonna be in heaven with us for a few years.
And then when Christ returns at the Battle of Armageddon
and sets up his kingdom,
the children of Israel are gonna live in the promised land.
They're gonna live in Israel
and they're gonna be judged by the 12 apostles, right?
One apostle will judge each tribe.
Does everybody understand so far?
So let's keep going here.
It says in verse number 15,
the word of the Lord came again unto me saying,
moreover thou, son of man,
take thee one stick and write upon it for Judah
and for the children of Israel, his companions,
then take another stick and write upon it for Joseph,
the stick of Ephraim and for all the house
of Israel, his companions,
and join them one to another into one stick
and they shall become one in thy hand.
Now this is a miracle, okay?
And this is probably a miracle that you've never heard of
because it's kind of an obscure miracle.
It's not as dramatic as Jesus walking on the water,
but he takes this stick and he writes Judah on one stick.
And then he takes another stick
and he writes Israel on it or Ephraim,
talking about the Northern Kingdom.
And he takes these two sticks in front of all Israel, right?
And he basically puts these two sticks together
and they just become one stick in his hand.
Now that's a miracle, obviously.
Now some people probably were skeptical and said,
hey, this is a magic trick or whatever.
But we know this was a miracle.
God miraculously caused two sticks
to just merge into one stick.
And the thing that he was teaching
is that one day the Northern Kingdom of Israel
and the Southern Kingdom of Judah
are gonna be one nation again.
Because in the Old Testament,
after King Solomon, they split into two kingdoms
with Jeroboam and Reoboam.
And they were separate all the time thereafter.
They were totally separate.
But God is saying that when they come up
out of the graves in the end times
and when he brings them up out of their graves
and puts them in the land,
they're gonna be one nation again.
All 12 tribes are gonna be unified into one country
with the 12 apostles reigning over them.
It says in verse number 20,
and the sticks whereon thou writest
shall be in thine hand before their eyes
and say unto them, thus saith the Lord God,
behold, I will take the children of Israel
from among the heathen,
whether they be gone and will gather them on every side
and bring them into their own land.
Verse 22, and I will make them one nation in the land
upon the mountains of Israel,
and one king shall be king to them all,
they shall be no more two nations,
neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms at all,
any more at all.
Neither shall they defile themselves anymore
with their idols nor with their detestable things
nor with any of their transgressions,
but I will save them out of all their dwelling places
wherein they have sinned and will cleanse them,
so shall they be my people and I will be their God.
And David, my servant, shall be king over them,
and they also have one shepherd,
and they shall also walk in my judgments
and observe my statutes and do them.
Now this is pretty clear when it says
that David is gonna rule over them
and there's gonna be one shepherd.
We're talking about Jesus because Jesus is the son of David.
Jesus will sit on the throne of David.
He's the good shepherd of Psalm 23.
He's that one shepherd that's gonna rule over them.
And the Bible says that the Israelites
are gonna walk in his judgments,
they're gonna observe his statutes and do them.
Verse 25, they shall dwell in the land
that I've given unto Jacob my servant,
wherein your fathers have dwelt,
and they shall dwell therein, even they,
and their children, and their children's children forever,
and my servant David shall be their prince forever.
I'll make a covenant of peace with them, et cetera.
And then he says in verse 27,
my tabernacle also shall be with them,
meaning he's saying I'm physically
even gonna be there with them.
Why?
Because the Lord Jesus Christ is God in the flesh
and he will be their God and they shall be his people.
Now, here's what's funny about this.
As we just open our Bibles
and we just go through it verse by verse this morning,
it makes perfect sense to us.
I mean, it's just pretty easy to understand this chapter.
Dead bodies come out of the graves,
they go dwell in the land,
Jesus Christ rules over them.
It's pretty easy to compare this with Revelation
and compare this with what Jesus taught
in the four Gospels and to see
that in the millennial reign of Christ,
Jesus is gonna reign over Israel
and he's gonna have the 12 apostles
judging the 12 tribes and it's gonna be great,
there's gonna be no idolatry,
none of the perversions that they got mixed up
in the Old Testament.
But what's funny is that what I just explained to you,
what I just taught you,
this is not what the typical teaching of Ezekiel 37.
Those that believe in a pre-tribulation rapture,
those that are into Zionism and John Hagee
and the TV preachers and pretty much
the whole Bible prophecy section at the Christian bookstore,
what they're gonna teach is that
this is all about 1948 when Israel went back to the land
and they got their country in 1948.
Here's what doesn't make sense about that, okay?
Did they come out of the graves in 1948?
Did they come?
Well, you say, well, it's just figurative, okay.
Well, then let me ask you this,
did Jesus start ruling over them in 1948?
Did they have David as their king?
I mean, is Benjamin Netanyahu today, is he David?
You know, have any of these prime ministers or presidents
that they've had over there in that nation of Israel
been anything like David?
Do they believe in Jesus?
Do they have that one shepherd?
Are they following the judgments of God?
Are they following the laws of God?
No, in fact, the current nation of Israel
does not have Christ reigning,
does not have anyone, anything like David reigning
and they're not following the judgments of God.
They don't believe in Jesus Christ.
They don't even follow their Old Testament.
And in fact, Tel Aviv is one of the most wicked cities
in the world.
It's known for perversion of wickedness.
It's known for debauchery.
It's known as a party city for sodomites
that go do the party there.
It's a very wicked place.
So it's pretty silly to say, oh yeah, you know,
that's 1948, you know,
when the Israel became one nation, wrong.
What this is clearly talking about is in the millennium.
You gotta wait a little longer, folks, sorry.
It's not happening today.
Now, the reason that's important is because
when we come out of chapter 37,
we go right into the subject of Gog and Magog, right?
Because when we get into chapter 38
and the word of the Lord came unto me saying,
son of man, set thy face against Gog,
the land of Magog, the chief prince of Meshach
and Tubal and prophesied against him.
So according to what we saw in Revelation,
what was the timeline of events?
In Revelation, we had the thousand year reign of Christ.
Then we had the battle of Gog and Magog.
Then we had the great white throne
and the new heaven and the new earth.
Well, in Ezekiel, we have the exact same timeline, right?
Because Ezekiel 37 is clearly about the millennium.
If we actually follow what it says
about Jesus reigning over them,
it goes straight from the millennium into Gog and Magog.
Perfect, right?
But if we're gonna put our pre-trib glasses on
or our Zionist glasses,
or if we're gonna go down to the Christian bookstore
and see what the TV preachers
and the televangelists have to say about this passage,
here's what they're gonna say.
Oh, well, Gog and Magog, you know,
actually that takes place even before the rapture,
even before the tribulation.
And in fact, they'll look at current events right now
in 2017 and they'll say, you know,
Gog is Germany or Magog is Russia.
And that, you know, they'll try to match it up
with current events.
They literally think that this battle of Gog and Magog
is about to happen, that we're lining up for it right now.
In fact, the movie left behind,
which is a pretty popular movie
put out by Kurt Cameron and then a while back.
And then it was remade into a Hollywood style movie
with, what's that guy's name?
Nicholas Cage, you know,
they gave it a full Hollywood treatment.
If you go back to that original left behind movie
with Kurt Cameron,
you know what the movie starts with
while the credits are still rolling?
Gog and Magog, just the battle of Gog.
Now, is that what the Bible said?
The Bible said that's after the 1,000 year reign of Christ.
But it left behind,
Gog and Magog is the first order of business, why?
Because if you're gonna make chapter 37 be about 1948,
well, then all of a sudden you gotta move everything up.
You know, we gotta move everything up
and okay, this is Gog and Magog now.
And it makes zero sense, all right?
Now, I'm gonna show you a little bit about the battle
of Gog and Magog from Ezekiel 38.
And then you be the judge,
whether this is something that's about to happen right now
or whether this is something that like Revelation said
is gonna happen after the millennium.
Look what it says in verse three,
and say, thus saith the Lord God,
behold, I'm against the Ogog,
the chief prince of Meshach and Tubal,
I'll turn thee back and put hooks into thy jaws,
and I will bring thee forth
and all thine army, horses and horsemen,
all of them clothed with all sorts of armor,
even a great company with bucklers and shields,
all of them handling swords, Persia, Ethiopia,
and Libya with them, all of them with shield
and helmet, Gomer, and all his bands,
the house of Tagarma of the North Quarters
with all his bands and many people with thee,
be thou prepared and prepare for thyself
and all thy company that are assembled under thee
and be thou a guard unto them.
Now, first of all, when we see this list of nations
that are being assembled here,
this ties in with Revelation 20 when he said,
he's gonna go out into the Four Quarters of the Earth
and gather all nations, right?
He's gonna gather these nations against,
let me just read it, I don't wanna quote it wrong,
I'm just gonna quickly turn there
in Revelation 20 to get the exact wording,
I don't wanna butcher it here,
it says that he will go out into the Four Quarters of the
Earth to deceive the nations which are in the Four Quarters
of the Earth, Gog and Magog,
to gather them together to battle.
So I'd say he's going into the Four Quarters of the Earth,
he's going all over the Earth and gathering these nations
to the battle.
Now that makes sense because if you look at these nations
in Ezekiel 38, I mean it's Persia, it's Ethiopia,
it's Libya, it's Gomer, it's Togerma,
it's a lot of different places, okay?
That makes sense, it fits, right?
But what if we were to apply this today?
Do you think Ethiopia is about ready to make some kind
of an attack on Israel right now?
I mean, think about how dumb that is, right?
I mean, is Ethiopia some kind of a military power right now?
That makes no sense.
I don't see any country down around Ethiopia,
you know, Ethiopia like African type people,
black people from Ethiopia down there.
I don't see them waging an attack on Israel anytime soon,
right?
But these prophecy teachers, oh this Gog and Magog
is all setting up right now.
Well, you know, is Ethiopia arming itself for this?
You know, is Libya prepared?
It doesn't make any sense.
But it does make sense if it's after the millennium
that just all different diversity of people
are gonna be rebelling against the Lord.
People from Persia, that's representing people from,
you know, Iran or that area, Africa,
just Europe, Gomer and Magog,
just people from all over the world,
okay, are gonna be coming.
It says in verse eight,
after many days thou shalt be visited in the latter years,
thou shalt come into the land that is brought back
from the sword and is gathered out of many people
against the mountains of Israel,
which have been altogether waste,
but it is brought forth out of the nations
and they shall dwell safely all of them.
Thou shalt ascend and come like a storm.
Thou shalt be like a cloud to cover the land.
Thou and all thy bands and many people with thee.
Thus saith the Lord God, it shall also come to pass
that at the same time things shall come into thy mind
and thou shalt think an evil thought
and thou shalt say, I will go up
to the land of unwalled villages.
I will go to them that are at rest,
that dwell safely, all of them dwelling without walls
and having neither bars nor gates.
Now, stop and think about this.
The Bible says here that Gog and Magog
and all these other nations of Libya, Ethiopia,
Persia, Gomer, Togomer,
all these different nations
that are gonna come against Israel,
it says that they're gonna think
an evil thought in their mind.
And you know what that evil thought's gonna be?
We're gonna go up there and attack them
because it's just unwalled villages.
There are no bolts, no bars.
We're gonna just take them by storm
because they're completely unprotected,
completely unprepared for an attack.
Now, let me ask you this.
If this is something that's a current event,
if this is something that's gonna happen any day now,
if this is something that happens
at the beginning of the tribulation
or something that happens around the time of the rapture,
could it be said of Israel today that they're just unwalled?
No bars, no locks, no gate.
I mean, they're just a sitting duck, no way.
But think about this.
What if you're in the millennial reign of Christ
and it's been peace for a thousand years?
Look, if it's been peaceful for the last thousand years,
you're sleeping with the door unlocked tonight.
You know, you're not even gonna worry about locking
your front door probably in the millennium
because things are gonna be so calm and peaceful.
And you could see how everybody's guns are rusting
because they don't even need them.
The Bible says they're gonna beat their swords
into plowshares, they're gonna beat their spears
into pruning hooks.
What that represents is taking weapons
and using them for agriculture.
It'd be like, what are we gonna do with all these tanks?
We don't need these tanks, there's no war.
Then they could rig them up to do some kind of a plowing
of a field or something.
You know what I'm saying?
Like they're gonna take all the technology
and think about how much money and technology
goes into producing weapons right now.
A lot, right?
It's a whole industry, the military industrial complex
where they're just building missiles and tanks
and airplanes and fighter jets and bombs
and they're making all this equipment, right?
Well, during the millennium,
that industry is gonna stop
because there's a thousand years of peace.
So all of that productivity of mankind,
all of the brains that go into designing new weapons,
you know what those are gonna go toward?
They're gonna go toward designing ways
to grow food more efficiently.
And so people are gonna take all that energy
that they put into building planes and tanks
and missiles and bombs and they're gonna be building
tractors that are better and reapers that are better
and planters and just high tech farming
and all kinds of efficient ways.
So it's gonna be a time of great prosperity.
You say, why would anyone wanna rebel against that
if it's so prosperous and all this great technology,
abundance of good food and everybody's doing good?
You know why?
It's because Jesus Christ, though,
is gonna have some rules.
On the, it's not just gonna be anything goes.
It's not gonna be a free-for-all.
And you know, there are people who just hate the Lord.
They hate his rules.
They don't wanna live a righteous life.
They wanna do wickedly
and it's gonna be a clean kingdom
and they don't like cleanliness.
They wanna get involved in debauchery and wickedness.
And that's not gonna fly during the millennium.
So it makes perfect sense that we read about
Jerusalem being filled with unwalled villages.
People are at rest, verse 11.
They dwell safely, dwelling without walls,
having neither bars nor gates.
I mean, look, on a warm night,
they'll probably just sleep outside on a warm night, right?
They're not worried about somebody breaking in
or anything because the crime is gonna be so low
and there hasn't been a war in so long.
Nobody's been practicing with their guns.
The guns are all rusted and not working
because nobody cares because it's just,
they're not learning war anymore.
The Bible says neither shall they learn war anymore
during the millennium because it's just not a thing.
So basically when the devil goes out to deceive
all these nations in the four quarters of the earth,
he's gonna put this evil thought into their mind.
These people are sitting ducks.
These people are totally unprotected.
These people don't even remember how to fight.
These people are in an unwalled village, no bolt, no gate.
Let's just go and just wipe them out and let's take over.
We can win, we can do this.
That's gonna be the thought process.
That makes perfect sense if it's after the millennium
like Revelation 20 said,
but according to Tim LaHaye left behind,
TV preachers, the prophecy books at the Christian bookstore,
it makes zero sense.
Because right now, if you go to Israel,
there's a giant wall there.
Who's ever seen a picture of that wall
that they have in Jerusalem?
They have this big wall that separates them from Palestine.
And there's a giant wall, there's barbed wire,
watchtowers, guys with machine guns.
I mean, Israel is filled with checkpoints
and soldiers and machine guns and gates and walls.
I mean, it's not anything like
what's being described here at all.
So it says that they will come upon them
and they wanna take their goods
and steal from them and so forth.
Then it says in verse number 14,
therefore son of man prophesy and say unto God,
thus sayeth the Lord God,
in that day when my people of Israel dwelleth safely,
shalt thou not know it,
and thou shalt come from thy place out of the north parts,
thou and many people with thee,
all of them riding upon horses,
a great company and a mighty army,
and thou shalt come up against my people of Israel
as a cloud to cover the land,
it shall be in the latter days,
and I will bring thee against my land,
that the heathen may know me,
when I shall be sanctified in thee, O God, before their eyes,
thus sayeth the Lord God, art thou he of whom
I've spoken in old time,
by my servants the prophets of Israel,
which prophesied in those days many years,
that I would bring thee against them,
and it shall come to pass at the same time
when God shall come against the land of Israel,
sayeth the Lord God,
that my fury shall come up in my face,
for in my jealousy,
and in the fire of my wrath have I spoken,
surely in that day there shall be a great shaking
in the land of Israel,
that sounds like some kind of an earthquake, right?
A shaking in the land of Israel,
so that the fishes of the sea,
and the fowls of the heaven,
and the beasts of the field,
and all the creeping things that creep upon the earth,
and all the men that are upon the face of the earth
shall shake at my presence,
and the mountains shall be thrown down,
and the steep places shall fall,
and every wall shall fall to the ground,
and I will call for a sword against him,
throughout all my mountains,
sayeth the Lord God,
every man's sword shall be against his brother.
What does that mean?
Every man's sword shall be against his brother.
Well, a lot of times in the Old Testament,
when there's a battle
where the children of Israel are severely outnumbered,
and these are times in the history of the children of Israel
where they're doing right before the Lord,
and when they're doing right before the Lord,
he protects them, he takes care of them,
and so when they're right in the sight of God,
and some giant enemy comes against them,
whether it be the army of the Ethiopians at one point,
whether it be the armies of the Philistines,
or whether it's the armies of the Amorites,
or the Hittites,
or whatever the heathen nation that comes against them,
to fight against them,
what God would often do,
because in their own strength,
they were just unable to win that battle.
What the Lord would sometimes do
is he would send a spirit of confusion
into the camp of the enemy,
whether that was the Edomites, or the Moabites,
or whatever the enemy.
He would send a spirit of confusion
where they would get confused
and start slaughtering each other.
Right?
He would confound them, and they would,
now this happens in war, what's it called?
Friendly fire, right?
When you accidentally kill the guy that's on your team.
Well, what would happen is,
he would create a spirit of confusion
where the Edomites might get mixed up
and think that the Moabites are the enemy.
When in reality, they're allied against Israel,
he'd cause just confusion in the ranks
where they just start just,
you know, ah, you know,
just start slaying whoever's around them.
They think that's the enemy because they get confused.
So that's what God's gonna do.
Now, in Revelation chapter 20,
we didn't get this detailed, did we?
In Revelation 20, he just said,
you know, these armies came,
and they surrounded Jerusalem,
and they surrounded the camp of the saints,
and then it just said,
fire came down from God of heaven and devoured him.
That was the only detail.
Armies came, fire came down, destroyed him.
Well, you know, don't you wanna know a little more
about that battle?
I mean, that's kind of just too short of a statement.
Well, that's why he told us,
okay, go back and look up Gog and Magog,
get the details.
Well, here's the detail.
Before the fire comes down from heaven,
he's gonna cause confusion amongst all these nations
that have come to fight,
and he'll actually cause them
to start warring against each other in confusion.
So it says, I'll call for a sword against him
throughout all my mountains, say to the Lord God,
every man's sword shall be against his brother.
You're gonna get confused and start killing their own allies.
And then it says in verse 22,
and I will plead against him with pestilence and with blood,
and I will reign upon him and upon his bands,
and upon the many people that are with him,
an overflowing reign and great hail stones, fire,
and brimstone.
So here's the fire coming down from God out of heaven,
but here it's a little more detail
that after he causes confusion in their ranks,
he's going to reign upon them hail stones and fire
and brimstone from heaven, right?
So we know what hail stones are.
They're obviously blocks of ice, right?
Balls of ice, and they can do a lot of damage.
You remember how the car dealerships,
I don't know, do they ever have that here
in Prescott Valley, the hail sale or no?
I don't think the hail's even really a thing here, is it?
It is, you know, it is.
They get hail here?
Well, where I'm from in Sacramento,
every once in a while you get severe hail,
and I know places like Texas,
they get even more hail and bigger hail,
but I know that in Sacramento,
the car dealers would run a big promotional
and they'd say, hail sale,
we're going to sell you hail damaged vehicles.
So they have little dents, so you can get a discount.
You know, if you don't really care that much how it looks,
if there's a little bit of a dent or a ding on the hood,
they'll sell it to you for a little bit cheaper, right?
It still gets you from point A to point B,
so if you're not too prideful
and worried about the way it looks,
you know, you could go get the hail damaged vehicles.
Okay, but big hail stones,
I mean, they can put giant dents in cars.
Okay, and severe hail back in Exodus,
and also earlier in the book of Revelation,
it could kill an animal, it could even kill a person.
I mean, if you just had this giant block of ice
dropped on your head, you know,
let's say it's the size of a softball
of just rock hard ice,
and that thing just slams you in the head,
or if you're just getting pummeled
with baseballs of hail,
I mean, that could really beat you up, right?
That could really pelt you.
So that's what's going on here.
They're surrounding the city,
they think they're gonna go up,
and they, oh, these people don't know how to fight,
they don't have weapons,
they're not, they're defenseless,
but then they get there,
there's confusion, they start killing each other,
and the next thing you know,
God starts raining giant hail stones out of heaven.
We don't know if they're the size of a fist,
or a baseball, what's the biggest hail you've ever heard of?
I mean, I've heard of it being what,
the size of a softball, or softball-sized hail,
I don't know the Guinness Book of World Records
for largest hail, I would suspect
it might even be bigger than that.
But that comes down on them,
and then also fire and brimstone,
brimstone would be like a sulfur,
like hellfire basically.
So hail and hellfire comes down on them,
and he says, I'll be known in the eyes of many nations,
and they shall know that I'm the Lord when he does that.
Chapter 39, verse one says,
Therefore thou, son of man,
prophesy against Gog, and say,
Thus saith the Lord, build I'm against thee, O Gog,
the chief prince of Meshach and Tubal,
and I will turn thee back,
and leave but the sixth part of thee,
and will cause thee to come up from the north parts,
and will bring thee upon the mountains of Israel.
And you say, you know, what does that mean?
He'll leave the sixth part.
Basically, he's saying only one sixth of them
are gonna stay behind,
and five sixths of them are gonna go to this battle
of their troops, and be wiped out
when they attack Jerusalem.
He says, I'll smite the bow out of thy left hand,
verse three, and will cause thine arrows
to fall out of thy right hand.
Let's jump down to verse six.
I'll send a fire on Magog,
and among them that dwell carelessly in the aisles,
and they shall know that I am the Lord.
So will I make my holy name known
in the midst of my people Israel,
and I will not let them pollute my holy name anymore,
and that he then shall know that I am the Lord,
the Holy One of Israel.
Now, this is super easy to understand so far.
People have made this complicated,
but it's all making sense, it's all adding up.
Here's the part where people get confused.
This is the part that throws people for a loop.
It says in verse eight,
behold, it is come, it is done, sayeth the Lord,
this is the day whereof I've spoken,
and they that dwell in the cities of Israel
shall go forth, and shall set on fire
and burn the weapons, both the shields,
and the bucklers, the bows, and the arrows,
and the hand-staves, and the spears,
and they shall burn them with fire seven years,
so that they shall take no wood out of the field,
neither cut down any of the forests,
for they shall burn the weapons with fire,
and they shall rob those that spoiled them,
or they shall spoil those that spoiled them,
and rob those that robbed them, sayeth the Lord God.
Aha, right there, people will say,
well, Pastor Anderson, you're wrong
because this can't happen at the end of the millennium
because they're gonna be burning those weapons
for seven years, so if they're gonna burn the weapons
for seven years, how can they do that after the millennium
when we know that right after the millennium,
you got the great white throne,
and you got the new heaven and the new earth?
So where's the seven years to burn these weapons?
And if you look at the prophecy books,
they'll all bring this up as like,
well, that's how we know that this happens
at the beginning of things, you know,
not even though the Bible taught the opposite.
In fact, in Tim LaHaye's book, Charting the End Times,
he puts it in giant, he has like a giant text,
the number one thing we should look at
when trying to figure out where to put Gog and Magog
in the prophetic timeline, the number one evidence
is the seven years of burning the weapons.
I mean, that's just, that's the number one thing.
Okay, now let's just use our brains for a second here
and stop and think about this.
If this is happening at the beginning of the tribulation
as the televangelists will tell us,
if this is happening around the time of the rapture
as the left behind movie would show us,
let me ask you this.
Is that a time when you would wanna be burning
all your weapons, when there's major warfare going on
and major cataclysm and major upheaval on the earth
for the next seven years?
I mean, why would you just sit there and say,
well, we don't need any firewood.
We're just gonna burn these wooden weapons.
And, you know, we don't need any lighter fluid
and we don't need any oil for the lamps
because we've got all this gasoline
and we've got all this, you know, from these weapons
and from these tanks and from these wooden weapons.
I mean, look, during the tribulation,
there's major war going on in the earth.
You're not burning weapons, you're loading the weapons,
you're cleaning your weapons, you're using them.
That makes no sense, makes zero sense.
Not only that, but, you know,
when God's pouring out his wrath on this earth
and the whole place is on fire
and God's burning up the trees and the green grass,
you know, think about the looting that's gonna be going on.
Because the Bible specifically talks about
that while God's pouring out his wrath,
that the men on the earth didn't give God the glory
who brought all these plagues on them.
And it says that they did not repent of their murders.
They did not repent of their fornications.
They did not repent of their thefts.
Okay, so think about that.
So during God's pouring out his wrath
with the seven trumpets and the seven vials,
the Bible specifically brings up,
hey, people are still fornicating during that time.
They're still murdering during that time
and they're still committing theft.
Now think about when there's a natural disaster,
don't the looters come out and start just
throwing a brick through the window
of big five sporting goods
and walking out with all the jerseys
and the Nike shoes and the Air Jordans and whatever, right?
Don't they go in and throw a brick through
Best Buy and walk in and they're coming out
with DVD players and they're coming out
with all the technology, the flat screen TV.
I mean, wasn't there just a disaster
literally a couple of months ago
and looters were being busted with flat screen TVs
down with this hurricane that just hit
in the southern eastern part of the United States
and in the Caribbean, all kinds of looting.
Can you imagine the looting
when the whole place is on fire
and all this cataclysm power outages everywhere?
I mean, the looters are gonna be going crazy.
Murderers are gonna be going crazy.
They're gonna be stealing and robbing and kill.
I mean, it's gonna be rough.
Oh, but we're just gonna be burning all our weapons.
We don't need these weapons.
Boy, you're gonna need your weapons
more than ever during that time.
That makes no sense.
Okay, here's what actually makes sense.
How about after a thousand years of peace, right?
Thousand year millennial reign of Christ.
There's this one last battle, Gog and Magog, right?
God just decisively wins the battle
by raining fire and brimstone out of heaven.
Battles over, the enemy's been wiped out.
Doesn't it make sense that at that point,
you'd say like, well, we don't need these weapons.
We didn't even need them in this battle.
I mean, God defeated our enemy.
We didn't even need them.
God wiped out the enemy.
Let's use them for firewood.
Let's melt them down and use them for other things.
So that actually makes perfect sense.
But the big sticking point for them
is that they have this idea
that immediately when the millennium ends,
that just immediately you go to the great white throne
and immediately you have the new heaven and the new earth.
But that's not really what it says.
Let's, we'll close on this, Revelation 20.
Let's go back to Revelation 20 and see that
there's really no evidence of that.
So the ironic thing is that the Zionist pre-trib,
TV preacher crowd, they think that the burning
the weapons for seven years is the big proof
that it happens when they say it happens
at the beginning of the tribulation,
right around the time of the rapture,
because they think that the rapture takes place
before the tribulation.
But ironically, this burning the weapons seven months
is one of the biggest proofs why that would be ridiculous
because why would you burn your weapons when you,
but you're going to need that weapon boy
for the next seven years.
You're going to need all the weapons that you can get
because of all the looting and all the bad things
that are going to be going on.
And remember the second seal in Revelation,
he's going to take peace from the earth.
They're going to kill each other.
You better have a weapon during that time.
So it makes no sense.
I'll show you the answer.
It's pretty simple.
It says in verse nine,
they went up on the breadth of the earth
encompassed the camp of the saints about
and the beloved city and fire came down from God
out of heaven and devoured them.
And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake
of fire and brimstone where the beast
and the false prophet are
and shall be tormented day and night forever and ever.
And I saw a great white throne.
Now let me ask you this,
does the Bible say immediately there was a great white throne?
The same day there was a great white throne
directly following there's a straight way, a non.
No, no, it doesn't say any of those things.
Basically God is not giving us a lot of detail.
He's only hitting the highlights.
That's what it, here's the proof
he's only hitting the highlights.
He summed up a thousand years in a couple of verses.
Yeah, they lived in reign of Christ, thousand years.
He's only hitting the highlights here.
He's just telling us, hey, here's a rough outline.
You got a thousand year reign of Christ.
You got Gog and Magog and then you got the white throne.
You got new heaven and new earth.
He's hitting the highlights.
You want the details, you gotta go back to where?
Ezekiel and he gives us that clue
by saying those three words, Gog and Magog.
Oh, okay, go back and read 37.
We'll get some details about the millennium.
Go back and read 38 and 39 of Ezekiel.
Get some details about Gog and Magog.
You see, the reality is that we do not go directly
from the millennium to the great white throne
and then directly to the new heaven and the new earth
because of the fact that when the thousand years are expired,
what does expired mean?
It's over, right?
And if we had some milk that expired,
it's not gonna have a date on it that says November 10th,
right?
If I look at the date and it says November 10th,
I'm gonna say, hey, this is not expired.
Now, what if it said November 6th?
It's still not expired, right?
Because today's only the fifth.
Well, yeah, but I mean it's the fifth,
it says November 6th, so it's expired.
No, it's not expired because if it says the sixth,
it doesn't expire until the sixth, right?
So when it's expired, that means the thousand years are over.
They're over.
It doesn't mean we're in year 998.
We're not in year 999.
It means a thousand years have come and gone.
They've ended.
They've expired.
They're over, right?
So when the thousand years are expired,
Satan's loosed out of his prison.
And he shall go out and deceive the nations
which are in the four quarters of the earth.
Well, let me ask you this.
Is that gonna take one day?
Is that gonna take a month?
No, no, no, because first of all,
he has to go around and deceive all the nations.
That's gonna take some time.
He's gotta put these evil thoughts into their head.
Okay, but then secondly,
they're gonna have to get the weapons together.
Remember, all the swords have been beaten into plowshares,
the spears into pruning.
So they're gonna have to come up with a battle plan.
They're gonna have to get organized.
They're gonna have to get their weapons together.
They're gonna have to create so many weapons.
I mean, they're creating a lot of weapons
because remember, they're gonna be burning them
for seven years as firewood.
They're gonna keep finding weapons and burning them
and reusing them for things, recycling.
Okay, well, that's gonna take some time.
So we have to understand that there's a time here
that goes by.
So after the millennium,
that's when the devil starts deceiving people.
If I had to guess, and obviously,
we have no way of knowing this,
but I would just guess that for the devil to go around
and deceive everybody and to organize this battle,
if I were to throw a number out,
I'd say it's probably gonna take like five years,
would be my guess.
But who knows, maybe it's gonna take five months,
but that seems too short.
Maybe it could take 10 years,
maybe it could take three years,
maybe it could take two years.
We don't really know.
If you think about World War II,
you know, the lead up to World War II,
it didn't happen overnight.
You know, it took about five or six years
to build up to World War II.
And then World War II broke out September 1st, 1939,
but you had a buildup for six years.
World War I, you had a couple of decades of buildup
leading up to that.
Wars break out after a military buildup
that takes place for a long time.
Think about Saddam Hussein and the Gulf War.
You know, Saddam Hussein is building up,
building up to that, building up to that.
And then he invades Kuwait, the war breaks out, right?
But there's a buildup.
So here's what's gonna happen.
There's gonna be a thousand years of peace on earth.
Satan comes out, he deceives the nations.
That probably takes a few years.
Battle of Gog and Magog happens.
God rains fire from heaven and destroys them.
But if you read carefully back in chapters 38 and 39,
he also sends fire in some other places
and devours some other enemies,
the ones who stayed behind but had the same attitude
or were part of the war machine.
He sends fire in the aisles of them
dwelling at ease as well.
So he wipes them out.
Then there's an aftermath of the Battle of Gog and Magog
where they clean up the battle,
they bury the dead bodies,
they gather up the weapons,
and then sometime shortly thereafter,
you have the great white throne judgment,
the final judgment.
And then you have the new heaven and the new earth.
And then you have, of course,
just a perfect return to the Garden of Eden
in the new heaven and the new earth where there's no sin.
And there's no possibility for rebellion
in the new heaven and the new earth
because all of the unsaved
have been thrown into Lake of Fire at that point.
Because at that great white throne judgment,
all the unsaved are toast at that point.
They're done.
They're all thrown into Lake of Fire.
So when you go into the millennium,
you still have sinful people around.
But when you go into the new heaven and the new earth,
it's perfect.
There could never be another rebellion.
It's only the saved in their glorified bodies
and in a perfect state.
So it's pretty easy to see
which of these two positions is right.
Because all the evidence is pointing toward
just the clear reading of just the obvious,
Revelation 20, Gog and Magogs after the millennium.
The only trump card that the other side's gonna pull out
is what about burning those weapons for seven years?
But when you actually comprehend that for a second,
it actually ends up proving
the post-trib pre-wrath non-Zionist point of view.
It actually ends up proving that even more
because it makes way more sense to burn weapons
when you're at a time of total peace
than when you're in the worst cataclysm
that this world has ever seen.
So what's the lesson that we can take away from this?
You say, Pastor Anderson, this is pretty deep stuff.
Give me a practical application.
Give me something that I can use this week.
Well, here's the practical application.
The practical application is
that we need to read our Bibles
and accept it for what it says
and spend less time reading books about the Bible
and spend more time reading the Bible itself.
Lots of Christians today,
they spend a ton of time reading books about the Bible,
but they've never even read the Bible cover to cover.
I remember one time I went to a boss at my work
and was chatting with him.
This is back when I was a very young man
and he was a Christian
and he went to a non-denominational church in the area,
but he was saved and I was talking to him
and he was one of the managers
and we were having a good conversation
about the things of God.
And we got on the subject of Bible reading.
And I said to him, I said, well, I think that,
you know, a good minimum,
a good rule of thumb for reading your Bible
is to read it through cover to cover one time every year.
Every year, read your Bible cover to cover.
That's a good rule of thumb.
That way you know that you're getting
everything God has for you.
And how long does that take?
Really about 15 minutes a day.
If you're an average reader,
if you're a slow reader, it might take you a little longer.
If you're a quick reader, it might be faster than that.
But it takes about 15 minutes a day
to read through the Bible in a year.
It's like three and a half chapters a day.
Okay, so it's not a huge amount or anything like that.
And I remember when I mentioned to this guy,
I said, I think that's a good place to start.
It's a good standard, you know,
just to have as your goal of,
I'm gonna read the Bible at least one time per year.
Here's what he said.
Oh, there's no way I'm gonna have time for that.
Because he said, I'm reading the prayer of J-Bez right now
and I'm reading this other book right now
and I'm going through my daily bread devotional right now.
And if you look at the daily bread devotional,
it's basically a page of man's word
and then there's usually one Bible verse.
So it gives you one verse
and then it's just kind of blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah.
So he's busy reading all that devotional
and then he's got his prayer of J-Bez over here
and he's got with a lion in a pit on a snowy day over here
and he's got the left behind series over here.
So he's reading a lot of spiritual things
that are making him feel like I'm learning the Bible.
I'm learning about God.
I'm learning about doctrine.
But he's missing the most important thing
which is just picking up the Bible and reading it, right?
So we need to make sure that we don't spend
a bunch of time reading books about the Bible,
that we actually take that 15 minutes a day,
you know, take that 20 minutes a day
or however long it takes you
and read your Bible.
And if you read your Bible,
you're never in a million years gonna come up
with this thing of, oh, well, Gog and Magog,
that's right before the rapture.
That evil thought would never enter your mind.
It wouldn't make any sense.
But when Tim LaHaye explains it, it makes sense,
the way he breaks it down, why?
Because he's gonna take things out of context
and get it all turned around.
But if you actually just read your Bible,
you'll never come up with crazy stuff like that.
You'd actually just take it for what it said.
I remember when I was a little kid,
I read those three words, Gog and Magog,
and I was like, oh, so that's stuff in Ezekiel,
that's when that happens.
You know, I mean, it just kinda clicked with me
because it's not really that complicated.
But, you know, to people who don't read the Bible,
you can pretty much get them to believe anything.
So we don't wanna be children,
we don't wanna be tossed to and fro
with every wind of doctrine.
Let's make sure that we're reading our Bibles for ourselves,
not just relying on the preacher to expound it to us
on Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night,
but rather that every day we carve out that 15 minutes,
and nobody's too busy to carve out that 15 minutes.
And you say, well, you don't know my life, pastor,
because I really am that busy.
I really don't even have that 15 minutes.
Well, then here's what I'd say to you.
If you don't have that 15 minutes,
then take 15 minutes when you're driving
and do it on audio Bible, right?
I mean, pull up, there's a great app
that you can download, the KJV-RVG, it's called.
And boom, you got your audio Bible right there.
Do that while you're brushing your teeth.
Do that while you're in the shower.
Do that while you eat breakfast.
Do that while you eat lunch.
Do that while you drive.
There is no excuse to not spend 15, 20 minutes
in the Word of God every single day.
See, I'm a bad reader, listen to it.
But you say, oh, I'll listen to preaching.
No, no, no, I didn't say listen to preaching.
I said, listen to Bible.
And I'm all for listening to preaching,
but not as a substitute for reading the Bible, right?
Because you need to have a time in your life
where you just hear from God only with no commentary,
no buddy explaining it to you except the Holy Spirit.
So carve out that 15 minutes, carve out that 20 minutes
and read your Bible.
And don't skip Ezekiel, right?
And say, oh, forget Ezekiel, give me Psalms, right?
Forget Jeremiah, give me Proverbs.
Forget Isaiah, give me 1st and 2nd Timothy.
And you know, you say, why do you bring that?
Because that's how I used to read my Bible
when I was a teenager,
because I was too lazy to read the whole Bible.
I would always just go to either Psalms, Proverbs,
1st and 2nd Timothy, or I would go to the Gospels
and just go straight to the red letters.
You know, the red letter Bible is straight
for the red letters.
Just give me something quick.
I'd read about three or four verses
and then go back to the playing video games
or riding my bike or swimming or what, you know.
But, you know, let's grow up
and let's read the whole Bible.
Don't skip Ezekiel, don't skip Jeremiah,
don't skip Isaiah, read that thing cover to cover.
And the only way you'll ever read the Bible cover to cover
is by having a plan and checking it off.
You gotta check it off.
Show me a marathon runner who doesn't have a training plan
and who doesn't log their miles.
You're never gonna run the amount that you need to run.
I mean, show me any business
that doesn't have some kind of a plan,
some kind of a schedule, right, of what they're gonna do.
Anything that you undertake in life,
you gotta have a plan, you know.
So get that Bible reading plan, check it off.
Otherwise, I guarantee you, if you just say,
well, I'm gonna freestyle and just read what I feel like,
you're just gonna keep ending up in Psalms, Proverbs,
Red Letters, 1st and 2nd Timothy.
You're gonna read those over and over again.
You're not gonna get the whole picture, okay.
You know, make sure you have,
and it's okay to read it out of order,
read it in whatever order you want.
But just have some kind of a plan
where you're checking them off
to make sure you plow through Ezekiel,
you plow through Leviticus, et cetera.
Let's bow out and have a word of prayer.
Father, we thank you so much for your word, Lord,
and we thank you so much for all the wonderful things
that you teach us, and that no matter how old we get,
and no matter how many times we read the Bible,
or how many times we go to church,
we can always learn new things,
because there's so much there for us,
we'll never learn it all.
And so thank you so much for giving us
this wonderful treasure, the word of God,
and thank you for giving us a brain
that would allow us to understand it, Lord,
and the Holy Spirit to be our teacher.
And I just pray that every single person
who's here this morning would read their Bible
and grow in grace, yes, but also in the knowledge
of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ,
help us to grow in knowledge.
And in Jesus' name, we pray amen.

